Imagine you’re playing a game of separating red and blue dots on a piece of paper. 
You can draw a straight line to separate them, but what if the dots are messy and not easy to separate?

This is where SVMs (Support Vector Machines) come in!

They try to find the best line (hyperplane) that separates the two groups of dots as much as possible.
Some dots are really close to the dividing line and are tricky to separate—these dots are called support vectors. 
They help decide the position of the best line.
If the dots are messy, SVMs can move the problem into a higher-dimensional space (like imagining the dots in 3D instead of flat 2D) 
to find a better way to separate them.
SVMs are smart because they avoid getting stuck in mistakes (local minima) 
by using math (called optimization with kernel functions) to find the best answer efficiently.

Pros:
It works really well with a clear margin of separation
It is effective in high dimensional spaces.
It is effective in cases where the number of dimensions is greater than the number of samples.
It uses a subset of training points in the decision function (called support vectors), so it is also memory efficient.
Cons:
It doesn’t perform well when we have large data set because the required training time is higher
It also doesn’t perform very well, when the data set has more noise i.e. target classes are overlapping
SVM doesn’t directly provide probability estimates, these are calculated using an expensive five-fold cross-validation. 
It is included in the related SVC method of Python scikit-learn library.

The goal of an SVM (Support Vector Machine) is to find the "best divider" between two groups of data. 
Imagine you’re sorting red and blue marbles on a table, and you want to place a ruler between them so that the red and blue marbles are as far away from the ruler as possible.

This "ruler" is called the hyperplane, and the space between the hyperplane and the nearest marbles is called the margin. 
SVM tries to make this margin as wide as possible to ensure the groups are clearly separated. A wide margin means the SVM is confident about its division, even if new marbles (data) are added later.

That's why the primary objective of an SVM is to maximize the margin between classes!






